# Pipeline-For-NLP-With-Blooms-Taxonomy-Improved-Question-Classification-And-Question-Generation
This repository contains all the source code that is needed for the Project : An Efficient Pipeline For Bloom’s Taxonomy Using Natural Language Processing and Deep Learning.

## Outline : 
An  examination  assessment  undertaken  by  educa-tional   institutions   is   an   essential   process,   since   it   is   one   ofthe  fundamental  steps  to  determine  a  student’s  progress  andachievements  for  a  distinct  subject  or  course.  To  meet  learning objectives, the questions must be presented by the topics that aremastered  by  the  students.  Generation  of  examination  questionsfrom  an  extensive  amount  of  available  text  material  presentssome  complications.  The  current  availability  of  huge  lengthsof  textbooks  makes  it  a  slow  and  time-consuming  task  for  afaculty   when   it   comes   to   manually   annotating   good   qualityquestions  keeping  in  mind  they  are  well  balanced  as  well.  Asa result, faculties rely on Bloom’s taxonomy’s cognitive domain,which is a popular framework, for assessing students’ intellectualabilities.  Therefore,  the  primary  goal  of  this  research  paperis  to  demonstrate  an  effective  pipeline  for  the  generation  ofquestions  using  deep  learning  from  a  given  text  corpus.  Wealso  employ  various  neural  network  architectures  to  classifyquestions into the cognitive domain of different levels of Bloom’staxonomy using deep learning, to derive questions and judge thecomplexity  and  specificity  of  those  questions.  The  findings  fromthis  study  showed  that  the  proposed  pipeline  is  significant  ingenerating the questions, which were equally similar concerningmanually  annotated  questions  and  classifying  questions  frommultiple  domains  based  on  Bloom’s  taxonomy.

